The Sloan Digital Sky Survey Quasar Catalog IV. Fifth Data Release
  We present the fourth edition of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Quasar
Catalog. The catalog contains 77,429 objects; this is an increase of over
30,000 entries since the previous edition. The catalog consists of the objects
in the SDSS Fifth Data Release that have luminosities larger than M_i = -22.0
(in a cosmology with H_0 = 70 km/s/Mpc, Omega_M = 0.3, and Omega_Lambda = 0.7)
have at least one emission line with FWHM larger than 1000 km/s, or have
interesting/complex absorption features, are fainter than i=15.0, and have
highly reliable redshifts. The area covered by the catalog is 5740 sq. deg. The
quasar redshifts range from 0.08 to 5.41, with a median value of 1.48; the
catalog includes 891 quasars at redshifts greater than four, of which 36 are at
redshifts greater than five. Approximately half of the catalog quasars have i <
19; nearly all have i < 21. For each object the catalog presents positions
accurate to better than 0.2 arcsec. rms per coordinate, five-band (ugriz)
CCD-based photometry with typical accuracy of 0.03 mag, and information on the
morphology and selection method. The catalog also contains basic radio,
near-infrared, and X-ray emission properties of the quasars, when available,
from other large-area surveys. The calibrated digital spectra cover the
wavelength region 3800--9200A at a spectral resolution of ~2000. The spectra
can be retrieved from the public database using the information provided in the
catalog. The average SDSS colors of quasars as a function of redshift, derived
from the catalog entries, are presented in tabular form. Approximately 96% of
the objects in the catalog were discovered by the SDSS.
