Bibliometric statistical properties of the 100 largest European
  universities: prevalent scaling rules in the science system
  For the 100 largest European universities we studied the statistical
properties of bibliometric indicators related to research performance, field
citation density and journal impact. We find a size-dependent cumulative
advantage for the impact of universities in terms of total number of citations.
In previous work a similar scaling rule was found at the level of research
groups. Therefore we conjecture that this scaling rule is a prevalent property
of the science system. We observe that lower performance universities have a
larger size-dependent cumulative advantage for receiving citations than
top-performance universities. We also find that for the lower-performance
universities the fraction of not-cited publications decreases considerably with
size. Generally, the higher the average journal impact of the publications of a
university, the lower the number of not-cited publications. We find that the
average research performance does not dilute with size. Large top-performance
universities succeed in keeping a high performance over a broad range of
activities. This most probably is an indication of their scientific attractive
power. Next we find that particularly for the lower-performance universities
the field citation density provides a strong cumulative advantage in citations
per publication. The relation between number of citations and field citation
density found in this study can be considered as a second basic scaling rule of
the science system. Top-performance universities publish in journals with
significantly higher journal impact as compared to the lower performance
universities. We find a significant decrease of the fraction of self-citations
with increasing research performance, average field citation density, and
average journal impact.
